18 REASONS YOU SHOULD travel TO PAKISTAN
traveling in Pakistan… When I first told my Mum that I planned to travel to Pakistan as part of my hitchhiking adventure across The Middle East, she was somewhat skeptical. She was probably wondering “for what reason would you travel to Pakistan?”
Pakistan is a country which is often portrayed in the media as a war-torn hellhole and tourism in Pakistan is almost non-existent. Every year, only a very small number of adventure backpackers and die-hard climbers travel to Pakistan, I was determined to be one of them…
young girls in pakistan mountains
Pakistan is a wonder.
traveling in Pakistan is a truly unique experience, it can be frustrating, enlightening, life-changing and, more often than not, surprising. Pakistan is the ultimate backpacking destination and if you are a fan of real adventure, it's time for you to travel to Pakistan!
Here's why….
Here are the 18 Reasons why you should pack your bags and travel to Pakistan…
1: People are simply amazing
And they want you to enjoy their country.
The Pakistani people are, without a doubt, the most hospitable, kind and welcoming folk that I have ever encountered. From the bustling streets of Lahore to the quaint mountain towns of Hunza, every time a local person spotted me I would, without fail, be rewarded with a huge grin and often an invitation to dinner. I lost count of just how many cups of free chai I drank but it was a lot…
On one occasion, a kindly man named Rehman invited me to visit his family in a small village in the mountains, I stayed for almost a week – hiking on the nearby glaciers and playing cricket with Rehman's kids. I've been lucky enough to make many friends on my travels but the friendships I forged in Pakistan were some of the most genuine I have ever made; the people simply cannot do enough for you.
I couchsurfed my way around the country, being welcomed into the homes of numerous strangers who always insisted on feeding me like a king and showing me around their local town. I cannot wait to return to see my many friends again.
travel to Pakistan, People are great
A bunch of Pakistanis I met on the train…
2: Unbelievable Landscapes
The world's most beautiful country – it might just be Pakistan.
OK, even the most illiterate of map readers should know that Pakistan is famous for its mountains, valleys, rivers, glaciers, and forests… This is a country with more than its fair share of truly wondrous sites and tourism in Pakistan is bound to take off eventually!
Five of the world's fourteen highest peaks, including the famed and deadly K2, are found in Pakistan. If you are into your climbing, rafting or trekking, Pakistan is the country for you.
I have explored over seventy countries and I can safely say that Pakistan is the most diverse and beautiful country I have ever visited. There are plenty of unclimbed peaks just waiting to be conquered by a worthy adventurer…
Mountains of Pakistan
3: Everything is possible in Pakistan… even raves.
Pakistan is not what you might expect.
Whilst in Lahore, word got out that a backpacker was visiting and, before I knew it, I had been invited to a very exclusive party set up in the middle of nowhere…  
I passed a small army of private security, proved I was on the guest list and finally, I was into one of the craziest parties I have ever been to. An international DJ, plenty of young, rich and beautiful Pakistani people, trippy lights and plenty of energizers to keep me going… It was a mad night.
travel to Pakistan with train
Unfortunately, taking pictures at said raves was impossible due to intoxication of the fun kind.
What you should know about Ayahuasca
The first time ayahuasca called me was two years ago.
I had been talking about it with a visiting professor who was from Peru and our conversations led to an obsessive interest that caused me to absorb as much information about ayahuasca as possible.
A pile of books was read–the most comprehensible, easy to understand, and down to earth one I would recommend is The Ayahuasca Test Pilots Handbook: The Essential Guide to Ayahuasca Journeying. 
The more I read about the mysterious substance and the sacred ceremonies that surround its consumption, the more I was drawn to make the long trek to the middle of the Amazon rainforest to try it.
It ended up being the most life-changing event of my adulthood. nothing was the same after.
What is Ayahuasca?
Simply put, it is a brewed combination of a vine (Banisteriopsis caapi) and a leaf (Chacruna) that grow in the Amazon rainforest. The vine contains chemicals that allow DMT to be absorbed into your bloodstream and the leaf contains DMT.
DMT is a naturally occuring chemical, your body produces some all of the time, but it is found in very high concentrations in the Chacruna leaf.
The fact that someone, 1000s of years ago figured out that this one combination, out of the countless billions of possible plant combinations in the Amazon, would produce ayahuasca, is nothing short of a miracle.
The vine and leaf are extremely common in the Amazon and readily available. Large quantities are brewed together for about 48 hours and reduced to a very thick concentration with the texture of warm molasses. Sometimes other herbs, leaves, or flowers are added to the brew in order to enhance certain effects.
Brewed ayahuasca in a cup.
It tastes like smooth mud and most people despise the flavor–I don't mind it at all–but I also enjoy sucking on pebbles when I'm in the desert in order to keep my mouth wet.
The Effects
I've experimented with plenty of substances before. LSD, mushrooms, peyote, San Pedro, and the like are all child's play when compared to ayahuasca. 
The depths and heights it is able to take you to are endless and navigating through the journey can be the most elating, terrifying, or enlightening experience of your life.  Most shamans will advise you to surrender' yourself to the ayahuasca. If you fight it, it will be the hardest fight of your life, and if you don't surrender fully, you won't get the full benefits.
My first experience revealed things I never knew were possible, opened up a new pathway in life, gave me permission to work with my talents, and showed me the future. All of this came through visions that took me as far outside of my body as possible, and brought me back in as deep as I could go.
Let the ayahuasca draw maps in your mind, they will make perfect sense and guide you.
I was in touch with the energy that pulses constantly through the Universe (some call it the spirit world), and communicated with various beings that took form. One of the more fascinating parts of my journey was when it just started to begin and patterns of energy in the thick jungle air could be seen. Every time an frog called, an insect buzzed, or a cricket chirped, I could see the vibrations pulse through the air and cause a subtle effect on whatever they encountered.
Ayahuasca is not fun. Although things may be revealed to you that make you laugh out loud, this is by no means a recreational drug and should be treated with all seriousness. Natives of the Amazon and those who use it refer to it as medicine' because it has the potential to heal endless sicknesses, both physical and spiritual.
You will not be able to move much when it hits you and most of the ceremony will be done while lying down on a mat in the dark. The only reason to move is to either puke your guts out or go to the bathroom and shit your brains out.
And puking and shitting is very, very common. Especially for those who have not taken the proper precautions.
Ayahuasca has a purging effect that empties your system and cleans you out.
When I did it, I had been fasting for two days and my purge came in the form of some intense sweating and tears that streamed from my eyes. After the ceremony I enjoyed the most satisfying and complete bowel movement of my life.
Purging really does expel harmful toxins that have accumulated in your body and even the more violent purges are considered enjoyable because you can visualize poisons leaving your system.
There is no hangover and physically you will feel refreshed for days afterwards. But the spiritual changes will stay with you for life.
The Ceremony
Under no circumstances should ayahuasca be done without  proper guidance. A specially trained shaman who has looked over the cooking process should be the one to start and end the ceremony.
He calls you up to drink, says a prayer as you sip, and after everyone has drunk, he begins to sing. He will sing or play an instrument at certain points during the ceremony and each song will take you down another path. The shaman will also assist those in need, blow ceremonial smoke around the area, and keep the energy contained within the circle of people who drank.
Ayahuasca is a very personal experience and when it takes over, you will want to enjoy your customized journey.
During my experience, there was another guy there from new York who had no idea what he was getting into. He came down with a friend and just thought they were going to have fun doing drugs in the jungle. When the ayahuasca hit this motherfucker, he started screaming bloody murder and didn't stop for the four hours it lasted. When he finally stopped, he was covered in sweat and tears and curled up in a fetal position under his blanket.
All the while, I was next to him and still able to enjoy my journey in full. His screams were not bothersome, but they served as a lesson to those around–ayahuasca is serious business and puts a mirror up to your soul.
The ceremony takes place at night, usually around 830pm, and it lasts from 4-6 hours. After everyone has drunk, the fire is blown out in the maloca (the ceremony hut) and there is complete darkness.
A typical maloca where the ayahuasca ceremony takes place.
Body/Mind Preparation
I'm leaving for Iquitos, Peru in two weeks and have already started to prepare. Its best to drink with your system as clean as possible so I am cutting most meat out of my diet for now. I will eat mostly eggs, fresh vegetables, and chicken soup. One week before I will cut out any alcohol and be sure not to have sex or masturbate.
These things are not necessary, but I want to get the most out of the experience and show respect for the ceremony. Those who don't follow the recommendations usually end up purging the worst and having particularly terrifying visions.
Meditating beforehand about what you want to get out of the experience is also key. I've compiled a list of personal goals and things that I want to work on.
I also want the experience to instill me with a new energy and expand my creativity. I'm sure it will assist me as long as my goals are in the right place.
This blog was born from my first ayahuasca ceremony. At one point in my vision, a jaguar visited, showed me the Universe contained inside myself, and told me to work with my gift of communication to share it with the world (he also showed me it was okay to be attractive and love many women).
My next ceremony and journey to the Amazon will be well documented. (Read about how I hooked up with a girl I met on the plane on my first trip to Iquitos here). I'm taking the camera with me, no way am I filming during the ceremony–but the trip to Iquitos, and up the Amazon river to the small camp I will be staying at for 10 days will have lots of footage.
I'm also going to undergo a Sapo ritual. Sapo is the poison from a giant tree frog that lives in the Amazon. The poison is collected from the frog onto a stick. You are then burned with another stick in order to create blisters on your skin. The blisters are scraped off so your capillaries are exposed. The Sapo is then applied directly to the wound and enters your bloodstream.
The little spirit who is going to make me born again.
For 10-15 minutes you truly feel like you are going to die. Your blood boils, heart pounds, you hit the ground on your hands and knees and beg for it to be over. Then, when it is over, you feel like you have been resurrected. For days your senses are heightened and you feel as though you can accomplish anything.
Natives used to use Sapo before they went hunting because of the heightened ability to see and hear. It is also used as a healing medicine and gaining in popularity around the United States–where it is known as Kambo.
Why Goldmund, Why?
Ayahuasca is not going to be for most people. I would say for certain that most humans in the West have extremely sick souls and would not be able to handle the experience. I've been trained since I was young to do serious self-reflection (this was the form of discipline my parents and church used on me), and am pretty good at being honest with myself. I've also been through a lot of therapy, including hypnotism, and have worked out my major issues from childhood. I would recommend doing that before thinking of ayahuasca.
Religion doesn't work for me. I tried, believe me, I tried hard, but my spiritual side is connected to the Earth. My church is the wilderness where the gods are in everything. Ayahuasca is going to be treated with a sacred respect and take me on a pilgrimage that promises actual rewards.
I'm certain I'm not going to return the same, but that is the entire point.
When ayahuasca calls, you have to answer.
SLA HOLBOX: THE LAST SLICE OF MELLOW CARIBBEAN ISLAND life
CARIBBEAN, MEXICO, QUINTANA ROO
Can you spare a share?
If you recall, a few months ago we shared about the Birds of Paradise yoga retreat I got to participate in and how amazing it was, both the yoga aspect and the destination of Isla Holbox. Following the trip to Isla Holbox we got a bunch of questions about the island, so here is the full rundown of how to get to Isla Holbox, what to do and eat, and where to stay. It's one of the last slices of mellow Caribbean life, so check out what makes it so special (and visit sooner than later).
What is it that makes taking a trip to Isla Holbox so special? Well, several things, but the easiest answer is this: it's very much Mexican and very little corporate. The town of Holbox is very similar to other Mexican towns in that it's pretty colorful and is 60% restaurants. What makes it different (in addition to the golf carts) is that it's full of street art and hammocks and there aren't huge booming resorts everywhere. Yeah, both in the water and in the town you can use or rent hammocks to chill out randomly and the large hotels are very few in number.  Really, it's just what you'd want to find and why a trip to Isla Holbox is worth the time and money.
Trip to Isla Holbox Caribbean Island polaroid twitter
LOCALE AND GETTING TO ISLA HOLBOX
The super cool little island of Holbox is just off the northern tip of the Yucatan and it's still fairly chill for being a Caribbean destination. It's a strange place, I'll be honest. And FYI, it's said “Hole-bosh.”
You arrive by boat and that in itself is kind of an adventure. From Cancun, you can catch any number of transfer vehicles, but you MUST BOOK IN ADVANCE. The drive from CUN to  Chiquilá is about two hours, so ensuring that you start your trip to Isla Holbox on the right foot is extra important.  Next step is to catch the Holbox Express from the town of Chiquilá. On a windy, rough day, you need to sit inside the passenger ferry or you'll be soaked. We got soaked upon our departure…but it was fun for a moment.
tip:  it is a BYOB or BYOMI (musical instrument) sort of boat ride, so be prepared to have fun.
Once you've made the trip to Isla Holbox, the only transportation around the island is via golf cart taxis or bikes that you rent. Actually you could also rent your own golf cart if you really wanted, much like on Isla Mujeres. There isn't pavement except for some areas of the town with paved sidewalks, so whether you're walking or carting, you'll get a bit dusty.
Rob Taylor and Friend on Transfer Holbox Shuttle to Isla Holbox Yoga Retreat 1Sunset from Ferry to Isla Holbox Yoga Retreat 1Wet passengers on Isla Holbox passenger ferry Quintana Roo Mexico 1Rob Taylor with Isla Holbox Colorful sign Quintana Roo Mexico 1
ACTIVITIES FOR YOUR TRIP TO ISLA HOLBOX
Clearly the most important reason you're taking a trip to Isla Holbox is because you need quality beach time, but there are lots of other great ways to occupy your time as well.  These are our top picks for how to spend your time on Holbox without getting too crazy (I actually think you can only remain chill on the island… pretty sure).
BEACH TIME AND KAYAKING OFF HOLBOX ISLAND
Nearly any place you book for your stay on Isla Holbox will have some form of beach access.  take ADVANTAGE OF IT! The waters in this part of the Caribbean are very mellow and waves are tiny. The beaches are great for walking and laying, for splashing and swimming too.  There are different parts of Holbox where feathers and sea matter accumulate, which can be unpleasant to walk through, but there are plenty of spots where this is a non-issue.
Along most of the beaches you'll find hammocks hanging over the water. Is there anything better than laying in a hammock with the aqua Caribbean waters lapping below you? Yes! Walking on the beach and being accompanied by eagle rays!  That's right: the beaches and shallows of Isla Holbox are teeming with life, big and small, and if you're lucky you'll get to relax with the rays, spy on horseshoe crabs as they crawl below you, or spy flamingos as they fly along the surface of the water.
tip: DO NOT pick up sea stars in the sand unless they are turned onto their backs. This can be dangerous for the sea star and the risk of them dying because you damaged their undersides or sensitive areas isn't worth the Instagram picture. If you're saving an overturned one, great, but don't linger with it outside of the water.
Boat in Turquoise water on beach at Isla Holbox Yucatan 1Overturned Sea Star on beach at Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 1Horseshoe crab on beach on Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 2
View of Colorful Caribbean from Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox 1b
One more idea for enjoying the water on a relaxing morning or afternoon is to go kayaking. We love to kayak wherever we are. It gives a great new view of wherever you are and it's great exercise. Kayaking off-shore of Isla Holbox is both beautiful and a challenge. The current is pretty strong flowing past the island, so depending on your starting point and the wind, you could be in for a good workout.
tip:  always bring water with you, no matter what activity you're doing. Staying hydrated is key to staying healthy and happy.
Rainbow while kayaking off Isla Holbox Yucatan 1bKayaking in the Caribbean off Isla Holbox Yucatan 1Rob Taylor Kayaking in the Caribbean off Isla Holbox Yucatan 1
HOLBOX THREE ISLANDS TOUR
The only organized tour I did while on Isla Holbox was with the rest of the crew from our yoga retreat. A boat picked us up just off shore from our hotel and took us out from the island. We almost immediately were greeted by a family of bottle-nosed dolphins that were in a playful mood. After observing them for a while (including a baby dolphin!) we moved on rounding Isla Holbox.
Our next stop was at Cenote Yalahau.  A part of the larger Yum Balam nature preserve that encompasses the tip of the Yucatan and a few small keys, this cenote is in the middle of a mangrove forest just on the edge of the Yucatan Peninsula, so it is actually on the mainland, not an island. Here you'll find a forest lookout to climb, a cenote to jump into, and just beautiful nature to enjoy. We were like kids splashing and jumping and loving it all.
Bottlenose Dolphins on Three Islands Tour Isla Holbox Yucatan 10Bottlenose Dolphins on Three Islands Tour Isla Holbox Yucatan 13Cenote at Yum Balam Preserve Isla Holbox Yucatan 3
Mangrove Forest Yum Balam Preserve Isla Holbox Yucatan 5
From Cenote Yalahau we headed to the bird refuge at Yum Balam. Here, we couldn't go ashore, but there was a dock and two observation towers in the water for our use. Incredible. Great egrets, tri-colored egrets, pelicans, fluffy white egrets, vultures, osprey… It was amazing how active they all were and it was just really breathtaking to observe.  There was just one bird missing from our birding list…
Our last stop was at the far western end of Isla Holbox.  What were we doing? Looking for flamingos! We saw only four, but they were pretty cool. We took time to get into the water and walk around the tiny piece of land and sandbar, but we couldn't get very close to the flamingos.
tip:  you can book this boat tour in advance or purchase in person from a roaming tour vendor once on Isla Holbox, but we recommend booking ahead of time to avoid the hassle and guarantee your spot.
Bird Refuge at Yum Balam Preserve Isla Holbox Yucatan 2Osprey at Yum Balam Preserve Isla Holbox Yucatan 7Great Egret at Yum Balam Preserve Isla Holbox Yucatan 7Flamingos at Yum Balam Preserve Isla Holbox Yucatan 3
SWIMMING WITH WHALE SHARKS IN THE CARIBBEAN
Disclaimer: we haven't personally done this, but our good friend Sarah from coffee with a Slice of life, founder of Girls that Scuba, has swam here and was blown out of the water.  Check out her full account of the experience and recommendations for having a safe and unforgettable whale shark encounter. Could anything make your trip to Isla Holbox better? Not likely.
tip:  book your whale shark encounter in advance so you can be prepared for the best experience possible and be sure you're working with a reputable, conservation oriented guide.
Whale Shark at Isla Holbox Colorful sign Quintana Roo Mexico 1Whale Shark surfacing off Isla Holbox Mexico from coffee With a Slice of life 1Whale Shark underwater courtesy of Jay Clue Dive Ninjas 1
Note:  if you are looking for experiences with sharks and diving in general around Mexico, whether it's the Caribbean or the Baja, Dive Ninjas Expeditions is very observation-conservation forward and they're very experienced with the wide variety of marine life all around Mexico.
EXPERIENCING BIOLUMINESCENCE ON ISLA HOLBOX
Have you ever walked on the beach or in the surf at night and had it start glowing like there were tons of tiny pixies in the water? Well, that's what happens in certain bodies of salt water. Isla Holbox happens to have a lagoon with some amazingly strong bioluminescence. Here's the process for experiencing it:
book a tour or taxi to the bio bay on a moon-free night
be ready to get in the water – be wearing swimwear and sandals
hang on tight as you travel by golf cart out to the bay
splash around and have fun
Note:  you won't be able to photograph the bioluminescence unless you have a super-special high tech camera meant for pitch black photography. Just enjoy the experience of playing and splashing with the sparkles.
Yoga Retreat participants downtown Isla Holbox Yucatan 2Sunset from Isla Holbox Yoga Retreat 2
EXPLORING AND PHOTOGRAPHING THE TOWN OF HOLBOX
Before I even knew that I was taking a trip to Isla Holbox I was familiar with the colorful street art of the island. Seriously, I had a week where on Instagram all I saw was Holbox street art… which got me totally interested in the island. It turns out that the whole of the Yucatan Peninsula is covered in street art, but Isla Holbox is really loaded with tons of it in a small area. From the beach to up in the neighborhood there are loads of small and large scale Mexican street art pieces. Beautiful!
Know what else is beautiful in the town of Holbox? Everything basically.  Both in daytime and when it's totally alive at night, everything in Holbox is colorful. We always do a little window shopping because we like to find cool (small) pieces of art to bring home and add to our collection, and doing so here winds up making a shopping day and photo session.
tip: don't just walk around taking pictures of peoples' wares and art. ASK first. In some cases, photographing shops and galleries is close to shoplifting, as you're taking their creative, lively designs for your own purpose without purchasing. Just be thoughtful.
Loteria Figures in artisan shop Isla Holbox Yucatan 1Street Art Downtown Holbox Isla Holbox Yucatan 4Street Art Downtown Holbox at Night Isla Holbox Yucatan 3
Downtown Holbox dirt roads Isla Holbox Yucatan 3
RUNNING ON ISLA HOLBOX
Being a really long island, Isla Holbox has a ton of beaches and a good portion of the main beach has a road that runs alongside. This provides two really great and totally different running routes, both which are easily accessible from nearly anywhere you're staying on the island.
HOLBOX RUNNING ROUTE #1: MID-ISLAND HEADING WEST THROUGH THE TOWN
Run through town, past the airport to the western nature preserve and back is an awesome running plan. This route is shaped like a lasso and can be about 3 miles, depending on when you choose to turn around.  Highlights along the way include the town square, lots of street art and a look into what's beyond the main tourist area. Know that a portion of this run took me though one of the poorer parts of the island, which gave me some perspective into the income disparity in such a small place as Isla Holbox, but it's a good route and you can respectfully pass through the neighborhood without disturbing residents.
Carnival Celebration in Downtown Holbox Isla Holbox Yucatan 1Rob Taylor Running downtown on Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 1Downtown Holbox dirt roads Isla Holbox Yucatan 1
HOLBOX RUNNING ROUTE #2: MID-ISLAND HEADING EAST AKA BEACH RUNNING
Starting mid-island or near Hotel Villa Flamingos, take off to the east, through the northcentral nature preserve. There are running/biking paths as well as firm beach paths you can run on.  I really enjoyed this because I did it early in the morning and I got to watch the colorful sunrise come up through the mangroves. There is a creek to cross on this route, but as long as you're doing the route near the mouth of the creek there's a path for crossing.  Highlights on this route include mangroves, beach running, countless beautiful birds and… wait for it… horseshoe crabs! Such a treat!
Running path on beach on Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 1Horseshoe crab on beach on Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 1Reflections in stream at beach on Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 1
Rob Taylor Running on beach on Isla Holbox Quintana Roo Mexico 1
WHERE WE STAYED ON ISLA HOLBOX:  VILLA FLAMINGOS
We were picked up from the dock on Isla Holbox by a golf cart taxi (like I said, there aren't cars on Isla Holbox) who took us to Hotel Villa Flamingos.  The property is set among palm trees and iguana dens. After a quick check in I got settled in my room. So cool. My room was on the second floor of one of the villas with a nice, big balcony equipped with deck chairs and a hammock.  A sitting area, a desk for work and a huge shower rounded out the interior of the room. The lighting was exceptionally cool with the ceiling and bed being lit from below.
Villas Flamingos King Room Isla Holbox Yucatan Yoga Retreat 1Rob Taylor with Laptop on balcony at sunrise Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 1Rob Taylor Relaxing at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 1
Rob Taylor in hammock on balcony at sunrise Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 1
Hotel Villa Flamingos is really ideal for relaxing.  I mean, it's on the beach, right? It has three pools and many hammocks and swinging lounge beds in the shade.  Oh, and hammocks in the water. And how could I forget that one morning I was watching the sea and a flock of flamingos flew by?!
Rob Taylor in Pool at Hotel Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 2Infinity pool at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 2Sunrise on Caribbean at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan Yoga Retreat 4
There is a restaurant at Hotel Villa Flamingos with a very good Mexican breakfast buffet and exceptionally fresh lunch offerings. And you HAVE TO TRY the tamarindo margaritas. I've had tamarindo margaritas all over Mexico but none have compared to the ones served at Villa Flamingos.
The yoga retreat I was attending was also here at the Villa Flamingos. We had the large upstairs space of the main villa building looking out across the palms and the Caribbean. I couldn't have been a better setting for a week of yoga.
Note:  there are plenty of small to medium sized hotels you could book for a trip to Isla Holbox. Check out other options if you're looking for something besides Villa Flamingos.
Group Meal at Isla Holbox Yoga Retreat 1Participants practicing Yoga at Isla Holbox Yoga Retreat 4Mangrove forest from Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan Yoga Retreat 1
Rob Taylor with Tamarindo Margaritas at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 3
DINING ON ISLA HOLBOX
Isla
I ate a several different restaurants in town, on my own and with friends, but my favorite was El Champlin. This small restaurant in the heart of downtown, just off the main square, has no menu. Each day the chef sees what's fresh and available and makes four dishes. When we went, the options were stewed shrimps, bone-in tenderloin, lobster and cream sauce, and grouper (fish) with poblano peppers. I had the grouper and it was remarkable. delicious with a really subtle heat.
I also went to Luuma several times for dinner, drinks or snacks. Luuma in Holbox is, I think, the precursor of what's to become of many restaurant spaces on the island. It's got its genuine Mexican flare and mainland Mexico style, but it's also working to cater to the up-and-coming young crowd that's discovering Isla Holbox for the first time. It's hip (and now I sound old) and fun, but also feels like a chill night spot. delicious food either way with amazeballs tapas.
Suschi at Restaurant on Isla Holbox Yucatan 1Sashimi at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 2
Overall, the food of Isla Holbox really seemed to be Mexican inspired but big-city trendy. Sushi is very popular on Isla Holbox, equal to ceviche and other raw fish dishes. It was not what I was expecting.  If nothing else, expect anything you get to be very fresh, particularly if it's seafood based. You won't be disappointed.
If you're not familiar with the restaurant world in Mexican tourist towns, something we've noticed as we travel around is that there's always a lot of change. We make recommendations today, but if you plan a trip to Isla Holbox in a few months, the top dining spots may be totally different. Try something new and with no prior knowledge though; chances are you'll love it!
Restaurant at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan Yoga Retreat 3Group dinner at Luuma Isla Holbox Yucatan 2Seafood tostada at Villas Flamingos Isla Holbox Yucatan 1
I'd happily plan another trip to Isla Holbox with the family, just us dads or even another solo yoga retreat. It's a beautiful, relaxing island and is perfect for any soul needing to escape the real world.
Want to pin this for planning your own trip to Isla Holbox? Go for it, and be sure to get a hold of us if you have questions or need more recommendations.
ve spent almost eight months backpacking through the vast majority of South America, visiting every country on the continent, most of them two or three times. It's been one hell of a trip, countless twenty hour ‘night buses', a few sketchy moments, and a lifetime of memories.
I wanted to share with you guys the TEN best things to see in South America, so if you're keen hit the continent, you'll have an idea of what not to miss. Check it out”
Antarctica
Ok, I know not strictly speaking in South America BUT the leaving point is from Ushuaia, Argentina so you have to be in SA to go, therefore this bad boy is No. 1. Ships leave from the Argentina's southern tip during the Antarctic Summer (Nov to March) and generally run from 11 days to 22 days. Booking in advance can cost anything from $8k to $18k USD but last minute tickets can be found for less than $5k if you're prepared to hang around Ushuaia for a week or two.
Antarctica is stunning, it's difficult to articulate just how beautiful it is, but the epic, snow covered mountain ranges, the icebergs, the seals, penguins and whales – everything about the place puts Antarctica number one on my sexy list.
Cicolvia: Every Sunday morning / early afternoon Bogota shuts down a few of the main streets in the city and “Rolos” (the people of Bogota) take the streets to bike.You see thousands of people bicycling every Sunday, and you should join them! Click here to learn more.
Gringo Tuesday: A Bogota nightlife classic, Gringo Tuesdays is, of course, held every Tuesday at a club called La Villa in Zona T.If you're a foreigner new to Bogota who liked to party, you won't find a better spot.Early in the evening, you'll be able to practice your Spanish.Once the clock strikes 9 PM, the event turns into a huge party.